FLOPPY BIRD

Background
Floppy bird was developed back in 2013 by developer Don Nguyen's and quickly gamed fame generating about 90 millon downloads in just a year of its release. 
The game was inspired by the developer's love for super Mario Bro's,and the gameplay was also inspired by the act of bouncing a pin pong ball against a paddle for as long as possible. 
Nguyen created the game for people who are busy and on-the-go individual who craved a simple but challaging game that can be played anywhereand anytime.
The duration time taken to make this game was two to three days and released in May 2013.
The game uses an arcade style which was very popular during the time of its release. 
The game uses a bird as the main character. The main objective of the game is to evade tube-like obstacles coming on either from the ground or from the air. 
The bird moves in a straight right forward motion with no halt and the player has to move up or down. 
The bird’s main movement is downward and the player just has to move up. 
The player has to go through the small openings between the tubes and has to click/tap in order to ascend. 
The score is kept track by passing through each opening. 
The collision with one of the tubes leads to an end in the game and the player has to restart the game. 
The game awards different medals for each score so a player who scores higher than ten will be awarded a bronze medal, higher than 20 gets a silver, higher than 30 gets gold and finally higher than 40 get the elusive platinum medal.
A variation of the game involves multiplayer competition in which two people compete on the same stage with two characters one behind the other or on different altitudes. 
The controls are different for each person so on Smartphone it would be diagonally opposite edges of the screen and on desktop/laptop computers the controls are two different keys on the keyboard. 
The game ends when one player collides with one of the tubes resulting in the other member being awarded the victory and their respective medal to their current score. 
Something tricky about this game is that it is too addictive due to the way it is easy to play and easy to lose your points.





3.	A clear “Problem Statement"

The primary goal in Flappy Bird is to guide a bird through a series of pipes with varying heights. 
The player aims to navigate through as many pipes as possible without colliding with them. Each successful pass through a set of pipes earns the player points. 
The game continues infinitely until the player hits a pipe or falls to the ground, leading to the end of the game.
4.	A clear “Approach
The project aims to implement a flappy bird game in Java with the following milestones:
The objectives are to create a version of flappy bird using java/android studio as the medium. 
The game’s development is to first calculate the gap needed to ensure that the bird passes through.
The use of 2d arrays in order to store the heights of the tubes is a requirement. 
The game can be played by or two players and while the game theoretically can go up to 4 players, we won’t be implementing this in the project.
The use of GUI will be to help the player fully immerse themselves in a gaming environment that hands out both nostalgia and a more modern feel with better graphics.
The game can be used” on the go”. The full game’s elements are to bring out the competitive nature and drive to reach higher scores.
Finally, this work will be presented for assessment in the form of a GitHub code and Project Document, which will include the revision and extension of this proposal. 
The extensions will include a walkthrough of the steps through the SDLC that our group followed, and a Visual Guide that shows the game in action (almost like a demo). 
One way to do this is in the form of ‘storyboards’ with an explanation per frame, that at least shows the start of the game, playing example of the game, and end of the game. 




5.	A predicted “Timeline


References
Williams, R. (2014, January 29). The Telelgraph. Retrieved from What is Flappy Bird? The game taking the App Store by storm: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/news/10604366/What-is-Flappy-Bird-The-game-taking-the-App-Store-by-storm.html

